README.md, before:

# Ultramat-Arduino

Arduino Firmware for Ultramat-Project.

## Setup

Before building the source code, you need to get the `avr-gcc` toolchain.
Its located [here](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/DEV/ProductDocuments/SoftwareTools/avr8-gnu-toolchain-3.7.0.1796-linux.any.x86_64.tar.gz).

Extract it to a known location.

> **NOTE**
> If you place it under `/opt/` you need root priviliges, prefix every command with `sudo`

```sh
# Download toolchain and move it to known location
wget -v https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/DEV/ProductDocuments/SoftwareTools/avr8-gnu-toolchain-3.7.0.1796-linux.any.x86_64.tar.gz -P /opt

# Extract sources from archive
tar -xf avr8-gnu-toolchain-3.7.0.1796-linux.any.x86_64.tar.gz

# Configure CMake targets:
./bootstrap.sh
```

For autocompletion using `clangd` you need to build the project and copy
the generated `compile_commands.json` into the project root or build directory.

## Build Firmware

Build the firmware for release using:
```sh
./dewit.sh
```

Commit message:

Add dockerfile for platform independent build and future CI

README.md, after:

# Ultramat-Arduino

Arduino Firmware for Ultramat-Project.

## Setup

Before building the source code, you need to get the `avr-gcc` toolchain.
Its located [here](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/DEV/ProductDocuments/SoftwareTools/avr8-gnu-toolchain-3.7.0.1796-linux.any.x86_64.tar.gz).

Extract it to a known location.

> **NOTE**
> If you place it under `/opt/` you need root priviliges, prefix every command with `sudo`

```sh
# Download toolchain and move it to known location
wget -v https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/DEV/ProductDocuments/SoftwareTools/avr8-gnu-toolchain-3.7.0.1796-linux.any.x86_64.tar.gz -P /opt

# Extract sources from archive
tar -xf avr8-gnu-toolchain-3.7.0.1796-linux.any.x86_64.tar.gz

# Configure CMake targets:
./bootstrap.sh
```

For autocompletion using `clangd` you need to build the project and copy
the generated `compile_commands.json` into the project root or build directory.

### Setup Docker

Build Image:
```sh
docker build -t ultra-arduino-builder .
```

Run Docker image:
```sh
docker run --rm -it -v $(pwd):/ultra-arduino ultra-arduino-builder
```

Bootstrap and build inside container are the same as on host system.

> **NOTE:**
> Building inside the docker container always uses the root user, which could
> lead to problems with a mounted directory!

## Build Firmware

Build the firmware for release using:
```sh
./dewit.sh
```
